---
title: Fire Department Calls for District 1 in Trees (H4)
date: 2020-04-24
---

## Dataset

Source: SF Gov Data<br>
Publishing Department: Fire Department<br>
Data: [https://data.sfgov.org/Public-Safety/Fire-Department-Calls-for-Service/nuek-vuh3](https://data.sfgov.org/Public-Safety/Fire-Department-Calls-for-Service/nuek-vuh3)<br>
Rows: **5.26M**<br>
Columns: **34**<br>
License: Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and License<br>
Accessed: _April 22, 2020_<br>

# Fire Department Calls for District 1

## Intepretation

The intention was to visualize fire department calls in district 1.

Since we used hierarchical visualization techniques we had to specify a hierachy. The hierarchy used in both is the following: 

District >> Call Type Group >> Call Type.

The top visualization uses circle packing layout. The size of each circle represents the count of incidents for that particular selection.

The bottom visualization uses circular dendogram with curved edges. The outer leaf nodes represent the call types.

Color scale uses the Viridis color pallete.

## Data Wrangling

Data was filtered exclusively for District 1, Grouped by Call Type Group and Call Type and then rolled up by the number of incidents. There were calls that were missing one or more of these columns - these were excluded from the dataset.

You can find the filtered data [here](../d3-vis/h4-tree/data.csv).

## Interactivity

The on-demand interactivity highlights the boundary of a circle in the top visualization. In the bottom one, it highlights the boundaries of the entire path, back to the root from the child.

I attempted brushing in both visualizations (selection on either would perform brushing on both). 

I had certain small bugs on tooltips of the opposite visualiation (e.g. if you select a circle in viz 1, the tooltip in viz 2 would in certain cases be misaligned). For this reason I left that out. However, brushing is still present.

## Conclusions

Going back to conclusions from previously looking at this dataset, it really seems that firefighters mostly deal with Medical Incident. Suprisingly enough, in 'Fire' Call Type Group, there are a lot of Water Rescue incidents (Call Type).


### Fire Department Calls in Trees
  <svg width="960" height="600" id="vis"></svg>

<figcaption>
    Author: Dejan Djokic <br>
    Source: <a href="https://data.sfgov.org/Public-Safety/Fire-Department-Calls-for-Service/nuek-vuh3">Fire Department Calls</a>
  </figcaption>

Resources/Inspirations:<br>

_[sjengle Observable](https://observablehq.com/@sjengle/java-11-api-hierarchy-visualization)_<br>

<script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v5.js"></script>
<script src="../d3-vis/h4-tree/tree.js"></script>
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto" rel="stylesheet">
<link href="../stylesheets/style-h4.css" rel="stylesheet">
